README.md, before:

# MCP server for Apache Gravitino(incubating)

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

MCP server providing Gravitino APIs - A FastMCP integration for Apache Gravitino(incubating) services.

## Features

- Gravitino API integration with FastMCP
- Easy-to-use interface for metadata management
- Support for catalog/schema/table metadata, tag, and user-role information

## Installation

### from configuration
```json
{
    "mcpServers": {
        "Gravitino": {
            "command": "uv",
            "args": [
              "--directory",
              "/Users/user/workspace/mcp-server-gravitino",
                "run",
                "--with",
                "fastmcp",
                "--with",
                "httpx",
                "--with",
                "mcp-server-gravitino",
                "python",
                "-m",
                "mcp_server_gravitino.server"
            ],
            "env": {
                "GRAVITINO_URI": "http://localhost:8090",
                "GRAVITINO_USERNAME": "admin",
                "GRAVITINO_PASSWORD": "admin",
                "GRAVITINO_METALAKE": "metalake_demo"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Environment Variables

### Authorization
mcp-server-gravitino provides token auth and basic auth:

**Token Auth**
```
GRAVITINO_URI=http://localhost:8090
GRAVITINO_JWT_TOKEN=<YOUR GRAVITINO JWT TOKEN>
```

**Basic Auth**
```
GRAVITINO_URI=http://localhost:8090
GRAVITINO_USERNAME=<YOUR GRAVITINO USERNAME>
GRAVITINO_PASSWORD=<YOUR GRAVITINO PASSWORD>
```


## Tool list
mcp-server-gravitino does not provide all APIs available in Gravitino.

### Table Tools
- `get_list_of_catalogs`: Get a list of catalogs with basic information
- `get_list_of_schemas`: Get a list of schemas with basic information
- `get_list_of_tables`: Get a paginated list of tables with basic information
- `get_table_by_fqn`: Get detailed table information by fully qualified name
- `get_table_columns_by_fqn`: Get table columns information by fully qualified name

### Tag Tools
- `get_list_of_tags`: Get a list of tags with basic information
- `associate_tag_to_table`: Associate a tag to a table
- `associate_tag_to_column`: Associate a tag to a column
- `list_objects_by_tag`: Get a list of objects associated with a tag

### User Role Tools
- `get_list_of_roles`: Get a list of roles with basic information
- `get_list_of_users`: Get a list of users with basic information
- `grant_role_to_user`: Grant a role to a user
- `revoke_role_from_user`: Revoke a role from a user

Each tool returns optimized responses with relevant fields to ensure compatibility with model context limits while providing essential metadata information.


## License

This project is open source software [licensed as Apache License Version 2.0](LICENSE).

Commit message:

[#5] improvement(tools) Add Tag and annotations (#6)
* [#5] improvement(tools) Add Tag and annotations

 Add Tag and annotations.

---------

Co-authored-by: pancx <pancx@chinatelecom.cn>

README.md, after:

# MCP server for Apache Gravitino(incubating)

[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.10+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

MCP server providing Gravitino APIs - A FastMCP integration for Apache Gravitino(incubating) services.

## Features

- Gravitino API integration with FastMCP
- Easy-to-use interface for metadata management
- Support for catalog/schema/table metadata, tag, and user-role information

## Installation

### from configuration

```json
{
    "mcpServers": {
        "Gravitino": {
            "command": "uv",
            "args": [
              "--directory",
              "/Users/user/workspace/mcp-server-gravitino",
                "run",
                "--with",
                "fastmcp",
                "--with",
                "httpx",
                "--with",
                "mcp-server-gravitino",
                "python",
                "-m",
                "mcp_server_gravitino.server"
            ],
            "env": {
                "GRAVITINO_URI": "http://localhost:8090",
                "GRAVITINO_USERNAME": "admin",
                "GRAVITINO_PASSWORD": "admin",
                "GRAVITINO_METALAKE": "metalake_demo"
            }
        }
    }
}
```

## Environment Variables

### Authorization

mcp-server-gravitino provides token auth and basic auth:

**Token Auth**

```bash
GRAVITINO_URI=http://localhost:8090
GRAVITINO_JWT_TOKEN=<YOUR GRAVITINO JWT TOKEN>
```

**Basic Auth**

```bash
GRAVITINO_URI=http://localhost:8090
GRAVITINO_USERNAME=<YOUR GRAVITINO USERNAME>
GRAVITINO_PASSWORD=<YOUR GRAVITINO PASSWORD>
```

## Tool list

mcp-server-gravitino does not provide all APIs available in Gravitino.

### Table Tools

- `get_list_of_catalogs`: Get a list of catalogs with basic information
- `get_list_of_schemas`: Get a list of schemas with basic information
- `get_list_of_tables`: Get a paginated list of tables with basic information
- `get_table_by_fqn`: Get detailed table information by fully qualified name
- `get_table_columns_by_fqn`: Get table columns information by fully qualified name

### Tag Tools

- `get_list_of_tags`: Get a list of tags with basic information
- `associate_tag_to_table`: Associate a tag to a table
- `associate_tag_to_column`: Associate a tag to a column
- `list_objects_by_tag`: Get a list of objects associated with a tag

### User Role Tools

- `get_list_of_roles`: Get a list of roles with basic information
- `get_list_of_users`: Get a list of users with basic information
- `grant_role_to_user`: Grant a role to a user
- `revoke_role_from_user`: Revoke a role from a user

### Model Tools

- `get_list_of_models`: Get a list of models with basic information
- `get_list_of_model_versions_by_fqn`: Get a list of model versions by fully qualified name with detailed information

Each tool returns optimized responses with relevant fields to ensure compatibility with model context limits while providing essential metadata information.

## License

This project is open source software [licensed as Apache License Version 2.0](LICENSE).
